there are a few things that all of us
need we all need air to breathe we need
clean water to drink
we need food to eat we shelter and love
you know love is great too and we all
need a safe place to pee now as a trans
person who doesn't fit neatly into the
gender binary if I could change the
world tomorrow to make it easier for me
to navigate the very first thing I would
do is blink and create single stall
gender-neutral bathrooms in all public
places
trans people and trans issues they've
been getting a lot of mainstream media
attention lately and this is a great and
necessary thing but most of that
attention has been focused on a very few
individuals most of whom are kind of
rich and pretty famous and probably
don't have to worry that much anymore
about where they're going to pee in
between classes at their Community
College where they're going to get
changed into their gym strip at their
public high school Fame and money
insulates these television star trans
people from most of the everyday
challenges that the rest of us have to
tackle on a daily basis public bathrooms
they've been a problem for me since as
far back as I can remember first when I
was just a little baby tomboy and then
later as a masculine appearing
predominantly estrogen-based organism
now today as a as a trans person public
bathrooms and change rooms are where I
am most likely to be questioned or
harassed I've often been verbally
attacked behind their doors I've been
hauled out by security guards with my
pants still halfway pulled up I've been
stared out screamed at whispered about
one time I got smacked in the face by a
little old ladies purse that from the
looks of the shiner I took home that day
I am pretty certain contained at least
$70 of rolled up small change in a large
hard candy collection and I know what
some you were thinking and you're mostly
right I can and do just use the men's
room most of the time these days but
that doesn't solve my changeroom
dilemmas does it and I shouldn't have to
use the men's room because I'm not a man
I'm a trans person and now we got these
fear-mongering politicians that keep
trying to pass these
Thrun bills have you heard about these
they try to legislate to try and force
people like myself to use the bathroom
that they deem most appropriate
according to the gender I was assigned
at birth and if if these politicians
ever get their way in Arizona or
California or Florida or just last week
in Houston Texas or Ottawa
well then using the men's room will not
be a legal option for me either and
every time one of these politicians
brings one of these bills to the table I
can't help but wonder you know just who
will and exactly how would we go about
enforcing laws like these right panty
checks really you know genital
inspections outside of bath change rooms
at public pools you know there's no
legal or ethical or plausible way to to
enforce laws like these anyway they
exist only to foster fear and promote
transphobia they don't make anyone safer
but they do for sure make the world more
dangerous for some of us and meanwhile
our trans children suffer they drop
outta school or they opt out of life
altogether trans people especially trans
and gender non-conforming youth face
additional challenges when accessing
pools and and gyms but also universities
hospitals libraries don't even get me
started on how they treat us in airports
if we don't move now to make sure that
these places are truly open and
accessible to everyone then we just need
to get honest and quit calling them
public places we need to just admit that
they are really only open for people who
fit neatly into one of two gender boxes
which I do not
I never have and this starts very early
I know a little girl she's the daughter
of a friend of mine she's a
self-identified tomboy I'm talking about
cowboy boots and Caterpillar yellow toy
trucks and bug jars the whole nine yards
one time I asked her what her favorite
color was she told me camouflage huh so
that awesome little kid she came home
from school last October from her half
day of preschool with soggy pants on
because the other kids at school were
harassing her when she tried to use the
girls bathroom and the teacher had
already instructed her to stay out of
the boys bathroom and she had drank two
glasses of that red juice at the
Halloween party and I mean who can
resist that red juice right it's so good
and she couldn't hold her pee any longer
her classmates were four years old they
already felt empowered enough to police
her use of the so called public
bathrooms she was four years old she had
already been taught the brutal lesson
that there was no bathroom door at
preschool with a sign on it that
welcomed people like her she'd already
learned that bathrooms were going to be
a problem and that problem started with
her and was hers alone so my friend
asked me to talk to her little daughter
and I did I wanted to tell her that me
and her mom were going to march on down
and talk to that school and the problem
was going to go away but I knew that
wasn't true I wanted to tell her that it
was all going to get better when she got
older but I couldn't so I asked her to
tell me the story of what had happened
asked her to tell me how it made her
feel
mad and sad she told me so I told her
that she wasn't alone
and that it wasn't right what had
happened to her and then she asked me if
I had ever peed in my pants before I
said yes I had but not for a really long
time which of course was a lie because
you know how you hit like 42 43 and
sometimes you just I don't know you pee
a little bit when you call for sneeze
when you're running upstairs
you know or you're stretching go like
what happens right she doesn't need to
know that I figure I told her when you
get older your bladders gonna get grow
bigger to when you get old like me
you're just you're gonna be able to hold
your pee for for way longer I promised
her until you can get home she asked me
I said yes until you can get home she
seemed to take some comfort in that so
let's just build some single stall
gender-neutral bathrooms with a little
bench for getting changed into your gym
clothes we can't change the world
overnight for our children but we can
give them a safe and private place to
escape that world if only for just a
minute this we can do so let's just do
it and if you are one of those people
who's sitting out there right now
already coming up with a list of reasons
in your head why this is not a priority
or it's too expensive or telling
yourself that giving a trans person a
safe place to pee or get changed in
supports a lifestyle choice that you
feel offends your morality or your
masculinity or your religious beliefs
then
let me just appeal to the part of your
heart that probably hopefully does care
about the rest of the population if you
can't bring yourself to care enough
about people like me then what about
women and girls with body image issue
what about anyone with body image stuff
going on what what about that boy at
school who's a foot shorter than his
classmates who's whose voice still
hasn't dropped yet Hey oh great eight
what a cruel master you can be right
what about people with anxiety issues
what about people with disabilities or
who need assistance in there what about
folks with bodies who for whatever
reason don't fit into the mainstream
idea of what a body should look like how
many of us still feel shy or afraid to
disrobe in front of our peers and how
many of us allow that fear to keep us
from something as important as physical
exercise when all those people not
benefit from the single stall facilities
we can't change transphobic minds
overnight but we can give everybody a
place to get changed in so that we can
all get to work making the world safer
for all of us thank you for listening
thank you thank you